1202606173.124411

	new revision to the design of the SU version 4:


	i think i'm actually going to be making this use a peer-to-peer  network architecture design instead, 


	basically it will work  like this:







		FACTS:

				0. each machine has both   server (listen(), bind(), accept())   networking code, 
					AND    client (connect()) networking code! 
					and the way its used, is that    when a machine wants to send a packet to another machine, 
							it will connect()   to that machine's server,   and do a send()      

					but when it wants to receive data, it will   accept(),   and then wait for a connection, 
						when it gets a connection, it will immediately  recv()    

					so server code is used for receiving,    and client code is used for sending     i think?...




				1. the while() loop inbtweeen the pthread_create and pthread_join for loops,   

					will be what has the networking code, on all machines, 


				2. each instance of the SU program on all machines, are identical, 
	
	
				3. the program finds its machine index via the hostname shell command


				4. the worker thread is identical to the current SU_version_3's worker thread.  (no changes neccessary)


				5. the worker thread pulls a new job via   atomic_fetch_sub   to pop from the top of the job queue, (ie, the job stack)


				6. the while loop in main will also   have  the ability to push and pop items from the top of the job stack, 
					via   atomic_fetch_add  (push)     and atomic_fetch_sub (pop)

				7. the while loop in main (aka, the "networked peer-to-peer job redstribution machinery")
					will pop jobs   one by one   from the top of the job stack, 
					and send those jobs  to another machine,   upon that machine requesting that number of jobs.

				8. a machine will only ever request a certain number of jobs from another machine like that, 
					(ie, that machine "triggers a redistribution/job-exchange") when it sees that its own job stack 
					is much lower in size than all other machines. 


				9. a machine knows the size of the job stacks of other machines,  
					because of the fact that all machines are stochastically updating each other 
					with their own job stack size,  by broadcasting their job stack size to each other,  
					one every minute or so,  (maybe less often, depending on whats needed)


				10. this means that there are two types of network packets that we will have to implement:

					- a  JOB_STACK_SIZE_UPDATE packet :     sends a single  64-bit unsigned integer    ("nat")   
					 	which is   the current job stack size for that machine. the machine will broadcast 
						this packet to all other 9 machines. 

					a   WORKLOAD_REQUEST packet   :    sends a nat  in this packet, to another given machine specifically, 
							requesting to  pop   that many number of jobs  from its  job stack, 
							and this machine (which originated the request)  pushes those set of jobs to its job stack!


				11. the while loop in main   needs to   (based on the updated job stack sizes  of all the machines)

					needs to figure out   when    (and    by how much jobs)       
					the machine should initiate a workload_request transfer operation,

					and the machine will never iniate a transfer, if the total number of jobs   
					left in search  is less than a given threshold.

				12. when it sees that the number of total jobs left in search falls below a given threshold,  

					the machine will simply exit the while loop, and instead, sit on the pthread_join() calls, in that join loop!




1202606173.125733				































































